So let's dig into some tactical
guidance on what goes into
an accessible user interface.
I have to start by saying that the
foundations of accessibility always apply.
So the basics are important.
As accessibility champions,
it might be a little bit tiresome to have
to beat that drum on the basics, but
those are the things that are getting
missed over, and over, and over again.
So we have to learn the basics of
accessibility and share those basics,
because if we can get those right,
we can really cut down the number
of issues that pop up later.
I mean, those really do add up.
I heard someone here in class
just talking about having 1,100
issues that they had to
solve in three months.
So if you could anticipate some of those,
you're gonna have a way
smaller backlog of things.
So when it comes to our UIs,
it doesn't really matter how
they're assembled to end users.
If you're using the newest, latest,
greatest JavaScript framework or
you're on more of a CMS or
a Vanilla web stack.
I mean, there's just so
many different types of stacks out there.
And really at the end of the day,
it's about what's getting
rendered in a browser.
What is the user experiencing?
We always have to keep kind
of our eyes on the prize,
that's what we really care about.
And so we can start by
designing with access in mind.
Sometimes this comes before our role even.
So just know that as developers,
as we discussed, you can only fix so
much, visual contrast, font size,
icons that are easy to understand,
intuitive, interactive interfaces.
Don't make me think about
what is interactive.
Is that a link or not?
Can I click on that?
I mean, chances are if one person
is confused about an interface,
a lot of people are probably
confused about it.
And nothing is more eye-opening than
watching users struggle to use the thing
that you've put out in the world.
So user testing sometimes, if you need to
get design stakeholders to pay attention,
have them watch someone
with a disability try and
navigate the thing they've created.
Cuz it could be really beautiful.
It could really solve some customer needs,
but it needs some accessibility attention.
In development, we wanna watch out for
using valid semantic markup with HTML and
ARIA.
So that's kind of the technical
foundation of any web user interface,
is using HTML elements
that are available to us,
exhaust that list as
thoroughly as you can.
Because there are a lot of features on
the web that we don't have to rewrite if
we can use what's there.
HTML is one pillar of the web platform,
with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
JavaScript and CSS will affect your HTML,
so they all go together.
It's like one happy family.
But we have differing amounts of all of
these technologies in our applications.
But HTML is always that thing that if
you're putting out a web user interface,
it's going to have HTML in it, probably.
So we wanna learn those basics and
make sure we're using HTML
elements that are available.
Now, ARIA, we'll talk about
more in the next section, but
that is
the Accessible Rich Internet Applications.
That is a standard set of roles,
states and properties,
their attributes that you
can bolt on to your HTML.
It's more of an advanced tool, as you'll
find out a little bit later, so I wanna
caution you when you get started because
that is easy to mess up and get wrong.
I've done it, we've all done it.
And there may be some framework-specific
quirks in how you construct your UIs,
like if you're using React or Angular.
How you compile components together, there
might be some extra markup that comes
along with those that you wanna make sure
you're testing in the browser at the end.
It's like, I didn't realize that component
was bringing in all this extra cruft.
There's some non-standard attributes
that's putting into my markup,
or it's messing with my keyboard
accessibility or something.
We wanna make sure we're looking at
it kind of in that full rendered
environment to see if CSS and
JavaScript and the markup on the page,
are those playing nicely together and
how we expect.
And we'll go into that
a lot more in accessibility
in JavaScript applications a little later.
Starting, though,
with some semantic structure,
just to kinda tip you
off on elements to use.
H1 through H6 headings
are super foundational.
They're very helpful in a screen reader,
because they give you an overall outline.
So we wanna pick heading levels
that create an overall hierarchy of
our content, and
you can style them with CSS.
So you wanna pick the right
heading level for the content and
kinda how it fits into the overall page,
not for
the way it looks,
cuz we can always style things with CSS.
And I did find that there
are some approaches,
at least in React,
of being able to use context to try and
programmatically choose
the right heading level.
So you can do things with components
where you could pass a heading
level in as a prop, maybe.
You could look up some techniques on
how to do it more programmatically
using context.
Sometimes we in pursuit of
making something fancy,
it might get overly complicated.
So those are some trade-offs
that you might have to consider.
But we still wanna think about
that overall end user experience.
What's that heading level?
What are your heading levels,
do they all work well together?
And we'll look at some
tools to test that later.
We also wanna use landmark element
to structure our pages, like main,
nav, footer, section.
And section and nav,
since we tend to have more than one,
we can label those using aria-label and
aria-labelledby.
Use lists, ul, ol,
those can group items and
they will be automatically
counted in screen readers.
And these are all really helpful
semantic things to organize and
group your content together for
people who rely on assistive technology.
Cuz if you can't see
the overall structure,
you can follow along kinda how
its marked up if it's done well.
For interactivity with keyboards and
screen readers, this one's super critical.
If a mouse user can do something,
a keyboard user needs to be able to do
the same thing, and screen readers
piggyback on the keyboard experience.
So an example would be of using something,
an HTML element,
as it should be used
is the button element.
The button element is focusable.
It has a button roll by default, it's
just built into the thing, it's baked in.
If you put a click event on a button,
you can still fire it with keyboards.
Enter key will fire that click event.
Whereas a div, sure,
I can put a roll of button on it,
I could put a tab index on it.
It is not going to respond
to that click event.
I have to put a key event on it too.
So the button is just, it's less work.
Everyone loves doing less work, right?
[LAUGH] Question?
>> Is it better practice to use
headings within section elements to
define the content, or ARIA?
>> It would be best to use headings first.
You always use the default HTML first,
exhaust all of that, and
we'll go through the rules
of ARIA a little bit.
See, we always wanna try to use the HTML
first, partly for support reasons.
Yeah, it's just kinda one of the rules
of accessibility in the web is use
those first.